website/content/docs/upgrading/upgrade-to-1.13.x.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Upgrading to Vault 1.13.x - Guides
description: |-
  This page contains the list of deprecations and important or breaking changes
  for Vault 1.13.x. Please read it carefully.
---

# Overview

This page contains the list of deprecations and important or breaking changes
for Vault 1.13.x compared to 1.12. Please read it carefully.

## Changes

@include 'consul-dataplane-upgrade-note.mdx'

### Active Directory Secrets Engine Deprecation

The Active Directory (AD) secrets engine has been deprecated as of the Vault 1.13 release.
We will continue to support the AD secrets engine in maintenance mode for six major Vault
releases. Maintenance mode means that we will fix bugs and security issues but will not add
new features. For additional information, see the [deprecation table](/vault/docs/deprecation)
and [migration guide](/vault/docs/secrets/ad/migration-guide).

### AliCloud Auth Role Parameter

The AliCloud auth plugin will now require the `role` parameter on login. This
has always been documented as a required field but the requirement will now be
enforced.

### Mounts associated with removed builtin plugins will result in core shutdown on upgrade

As of 1.13.0 Standalone (logical) DB Engines and the AppId Auth Method have been
marked with the `Removed` status. Any attempt to unseal Vault with
mounts backed by one of these builtin plugins will result in an immediate
shutdown of the Vault core.

-> **NOTE** In the event that an external plugin with the same name and type as
a deprecated builtin is deregistered, any subsequent unseal will continue to
unseal with an unusable auth backend, and a corresponding ERROR log.

```shell-session
$ vault plugin register -sha256=c805cf3b69f704dfcd5176ef1c7599f88adbfd7374e9c76da7f24a32a97abfe1 auth app-id
Success! Registered plugin: app-id
$ vault auth enable -plugin-name=app-id plugin
Success! Enabled app-id auth method at: app-id/
$ vault auth list -detailed | grep "app-id"
app-id/    app-id    auth_app-id_3a8f2e24    system         system     default-service    replicated     false        false                      map[]      n/a                        0018263c-0d64-7a70-fd5c-50e05c5f5dc3    n/a        n/a                      c805cf3b69f704dfcd5176ef1c7599f88adbfd7374e9c76da7f24a32a97abfe1    n/a
$ vault plugin deregister auth app-id
Success! Deregistered plugin (if it was registered): app-id
$ vault plugin list -detailed | grep "app-id"
app-id                               auth        v1.13.0+builtin.vault                                 removed
$ curl --header "X-Vault-Token: $VAULT_TOKEN" --request POST http://127.0.0.2:8200/v1/sys/seal
$ vault operator unseal <key1>
...
$ vault operator unseal <key2>
...
$ vault operator unseal <key3>
...
$ grep "app-id" /path/to/vault.log
[ERROR] core: skipping deprecated auth entry: name=app-id path=app-id/ error="mount entry associated with removed builtin"
[ERROR] core: skipping initialization for nil auth backend: path=app-id/ type=app-id version="v1.13.0+builtin.vault"
```

The remediation for affected mounts is to downgrade to the previously-used version of Vault
environment variable and replace any `Removed` feature with the
[preferred alternative
feature](/vault/docs/deprecation/faq#q-what-should-i-do-if-i-use-mount-filters-appid-or-any-of-the-standalone-db-engines).

For more information on the phases of deprecation, see the [Deprecation Notices
FAQ](/vault/docs/deprecation/faq#q-what-are-the-phases-of-deprecation).

#### Impacted Versions

Affects upgrading from any version of Vault to 1.13.x. All other upgrade paths
are unaffected.

## Known Issues

@include 'tokenization-rotation-persistence.mdx'

@include 'ocsp-redirect.mdx'

### PKI Revocation Request Forwarding

If a revocation request comes in to a standby or performance secondary node,
for a certificate that is present locally, the request will not be correctly
forwarded to the active node of this cluster.

As a workaround, submit revocation requests to the active node only.

### STS credentials do not return a lease_duration
Vault 1.13.0 introduced a change to the AWS Secrets Engine such that it no longer creates leases for STS credentials due
to the fact that they cannot be revoked or renewed. As part of this change, a bug was introduced which causes `lease_duration`
to always return zero. This prevents the Vault Agent from refreshing STS credentials and may introduce undesired behaviour
for anything which relies on a non-zero `lease_duration`.

For applications that can control what value to look for, the `ttl` value in the response can be used to know when to
request STS credentials next.

An additional workaround for users rendering STS credentials via the Vault Agent is to set the
`static-secret-render-interval` for a template using the credentials. Setting this configuration to 15 minutes
accommodates the default minimum duration of an STS token and overrides the default render interval of 5 minutes.

#### Impacted Versions

Affects Vault 1.13.0 only.

### LDAP Pagination Issue

There was a regression introduced in 1.13.2 relating to LDAP maximum page sizes, resulting in
an error `no LDAP groups found in groupDN [...] only policies from locally-defined groups available`.  The issue
occurs when upgrading Vault with an instance that has an existing LDAP Auth configuration.

As a workaround, disable paged searching using the following:
```shell-session
vault write auth/ldap/config max_page_size=-1
```

#### Impacted Versions

Affects Vault 1.13.2.

### PKI Cross-Cluster Revocation Requests and Unified CRL/OCSP

When revoking certificates on a cluster that doesn't own the
certificate, writing the revocation request will fail with
a message like `error persisting cross-cluster revocation request`.
Similar errors will appear in the log for failure to write
unified CRL and unified delta CRL WAL entries.

As a workaround, submit revocation requests to the cluster which
issued the certificate, or use BYOC revocation. Use cluster-local
OCSP and CRLs until this is resolved.

#### Impacted Versions

Affects Vault 1.13.0 to 1.13.2. Fixed in 1.13.3.

On upgrade, all local revocations will be synchronized between
clusters; revocation requests are not persisted when failing to
write cross-cluster.

### Slow Startup Time When Storing PKI Certificates

There was a regression introduced in 1.13.0 where Vault is slow to start because the
PKI secret engine performs a list operation on the stored certificates. If a large number
of certificates are stored this can cause long start times on active and standby nodes.

There is currently no workaround for this other than limiting the number of certificates stored
in Vault via the [PKI tidy](/vault/api-docs/secret/pki#tidy) or using `no_store`
flag for [PKI roles](/vault/api-docs/secret/pki#createupdate-role).

#### Impacted Versions

Affects Vault 1.13.0+

@include 'perf-standby-token-create-forwarding-failure.mdx'

@include 'update-primary-known-issue.mdx'

@include 'pki-double-migration-bug.mdx'

@include 'update-primary-addrs-panic.mdx'

Commit message:

Add note about user lockout defaults (#21744)

website/content/docs/upgrading/upgrade-to-1.13.x.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Upgrading to Vault 1.13.x - Guides
description: |-
  This page contains the list of deprecations and important or breaking changes
  for Vault 1.13.x. Please read it carefully.
---

# Overview

This page contains the list of deprecations and important or breaking changes
for Vault 1.13.x compared to 1.12. Please read it carefully.

## Changes

@include 'consul-dataplane-upgrade-note.mdx'

### User lockout

As of version 1.13, Vault will stop trying to validate user credentials if the
user submits multiple invalid credentials in quick succession. During lockout,
Vault ignores requests from the barred user rather than responding with a 
permission denied error.

User lockout is enabled by default with a lockout threshold of 5 attempt, a
lockout duration of 15 minutes, and a counter reset window of 15 minutes.

For more information, refer to the [User lockout](/vault/docs/concepts/user-lockout)
overview.

### Active directory secrets engine deprecation

The Active Directory (AD) secrets engine has been deprecated as of the Vault 1.13 release.
We will continue to support the AD secrets engine in maintenance mode for six major Vault
releases. Maintenance mode means that we will fix bugs and security issues but will not add
new features. For additional information, see the [deprecation table](/vault/docs/deprecation)
and [migration guide](/vault/docs/secrets/ad/migration-guide).

### AliCloud Auth Role Parameter

The AliCloud auth plugin will now require the `role` parameter on login. This
has always been documented as a required field but the requirement will now be
enforced.

### Mounts associated with removed builtin plugins will result in core shutdown on upgrade

As of 1.13.0 Standalone (logical) DB Engines and the AppId Auth Method have been
marked with the `Removed` status. Any attempt to unseal Vault with
mounts backed by one of these builtin plugins will result in an immediate
shutdown of the Vault core.

-> **NOTE** In the event that an external plugin with the same name and type as
a deprecated builtin is deregistered, any subsequent unseal will continue to
unseal with an unusable auth backend, and a corresponding ERROR log.

```shell-session
$ vault plugin register -sha256=c805cf3b69f704dfcd5176ef1c7599f88adbfd7374e9c76da7f24a32a97abfe1 auth app-id
Success! Registered plugin: app-id
$ vault auth enable -plugin-name=app-id plugin
Success! Enabled app-id auth method at: app-id/
$ vault auth list -detailed | grep "app-id"
app-id/    app-id    auth_app-id_3a8f2e24    system         system     default-service    replicated     false        false                      map[]      n/a                        0018263c-0d64-7a70-fd5c-50e05c5f5dc3    n/a        n/a                      c805cf3b69f704dfcd5176ef1c7599f88adbfd7374e9c76da7f24a32a97abfe1    n/a
$ vault plugin deregister auth app-id
Success! Deregistered plugin (if it was registered): app-id
$ vault plugin list -detailed | grep "app-id"
app-id                               auth        v1.13.0+builtin.vault                                 removed
$ curl --header "X-Vault-Token: $VAULT_TOKEN" --request POST http://127.0.0.2:8200/v1/sys/seal
$ vault operator unseal <key1>
...
$ vault operator unseal <key2>
...
$ vault operator unseal <key3>
...
$ grep "app-id" /path/to/vault.log
[ERROR] core: skipping deprecated auth entry: name=app-id path=app-id/ error="mount entry associated with removed builtin"
[ERROR] core: skipping initialization for nil auth backend: path=app-id/ type=app-id version="v1.13.0+builtin.vault"
```

The remediation for affected mounts is to downgrade to the previously-used version of Vault
environment variable and replace any `Removed` feature with the
[preferred alternative
feature](/vault/docs/deprecation/faq#q-what-should-i-do-if-i-use-mount-filters-appid-or-any-of-the-standalone-db-engines).

For more information on the phases of deprecation, see the [Deprecation Notices
FAQ](/vault/docs/deprecation/faq#q-what-are-the-phases-of-deprecation).

#### Impacted Versions

Affects upgrading from any version of Vault to 1.13.x. All other upgrade paths
are unaffected.

## Known Issues

@include 'tokenization-rotation-persistence.mdx'

@include 'ocsp-redirect.mdx'

### PKI Revocation Request Forwarding

If a revocation request comes in to a standby or performance secondary node,
for a certificate that is present locally, the request will not be correctly
forwarded to the active node of this cluster.

As a workaround, submit revocation requests to the active node only.

### STS credentials do not return a lease_duration
Vault 1.13.0 introduced a change to the AWS Secrets Engine such that it no longer creates leases for STS credentials due
to the fact that they cannot be revoked or renewed. As part of this change, a bug was introduced which causes `lease_duration`
to always return zero. This prevents the Vault Agent from refreshing STS credentials and may introduce undesired behaviour
for anything which relies on a non-zero `lease_duration`.

For applications that can control what value to look for, the `ttl` value in the response can be used to know when to
request STS credentials next.

An additional workaround for users rendering STS credentials via the Vault Agent is to set the
`static-secret-render-interval` for a template using the credentials. Setting this configuration to 15 minutes
accommodates the default minimum duration of an STS token and overrides the default render interval of 5 minutes.

#### Impacted Versions

Affects Vault 1.13.0 only.

### LDAP Pagination Issue

There was a regression introduced in 1.13.2 relating to LDAP maximum page sizes, resulting in
an error `no LDAP groups found in groupDN [...] only policies from locally-defined groups available`.  The issue
occurs when upgrading Vault with an instance that has an existing LDAP Auth configuration.

As a workaround, disable paged searching using the following:
```shell-session
vault write auth/ldap/config max_page_size=-1
```

#### Impacted Versions

Affects Vault 1.13.2.

### PKI Cross-Cluster Revocation Requests and Unified CRL/OCSP

When revoking certificates on a cluster that doesn't own the
certificate, writing the revocation request will fail with
a message like `error persisting cross-cluster revocation request`.
Similar errors will appear in the log for failure to write
unified CRL and unified delta CRL WAL entries.

As a workaround, submit revocation requests to the cluster which
issued the certificate, or use BYOC revocation. Use cluster-local
OCSP and CRLs until this is resolved.

#### Impacted Versions

Affects Vault 1.13.0 to 1.13.2. Fixed in 1.13.3.

On upgrade, all local revocations will be synchronized between
clusters; revocation requests are not persisted when failing to
write cross-cluster.

### Slow Startup Time When Storing PKI Certificates

There was a regression introduced in 1.13.0 where Vault is slow to start because the
PKI secret engine performs a list operation on the stored certificates. If a large number
of certificates are stored this can cause long start times on active and standby nodes.

There is currently no workaround for this other than limiting the number of certificates stored
in Vault via the [PKI tidy](/vault/api-docs/secret/pki#tidy) or using `no_store`
flag for [PKI roles](/vault/api-docs/secret/pki#createupdate-role).

#### Impacted Versions

Affects Vault 1.13.0+

@include 'perf-standby-token-create-forwarding-failure.mdx'

@include 'update-primary-known-issue.mdx'

@include 'pki-double-migration-bug.mdx'

@include 'update-primary-addrs-panic.mdx'
